b'COFFEE CHOCOLATE CHIP GELATO is rated 4.4 out of 5 by 114 .\n\nRated 4 out of 5 by Kikiii from Um, YUM! I had been wanting something sweet and since it was so hot outside, I decided I wanted ice cream. At the store, I saw the talenti pints of gelato and thought, "how cute, I can reuse these." I chose the coffee chocolate chip and I\'m so glad I did. It is creamy, has a full coffee flavor, and the chips are so thin and small they just melt away. I normally dislike chips in my frozen treats, but like I said, these just melted away nicely. My husband chose a the Belgian chocolate flavor and we were both disappointed with it compared to the coffee one. I ended up having to share mine with him which was fine since it is so rich I could only eat a little at a time.\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by DoctorEsq from Outstanding I have never been a coffee lover. Yes, in today\'s coffee addicted world that\'s strange but there you have it. I am, however, a tried and true Chocoholic. Yet the way Talenti has blended traditional coffee flavor with chocolate chips is truly outstanding. And the texture is perfect ~ a bit more solid then the other chocolate chip flavors especially in contrast to the Mediterranean Mint, Chocolate Chip, Peppermint Bark, etc ~ although all yummy, they melt far to quickly for my taste as I enjoy savoring the experience!! True, I pretty much love just about all the Talenti flavors and eat 1/2 a pint every night for my treat. But Talenti\'s Coffee Chocolate Chip has become one of my favorite flavors!\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by Auditory from This is what coffee flavor is all about In the mid-1960s when I was just a tot, my Sisters used to take me to a little shack that doubled as an ice cream parlor. The place featured a big name ice cream brand that is still one of the major players today. That\'s where I had my first taste of a coffee flavored frozen confection. Regrettably, the band name product today tastes nothing like I remembered it to have been. Fortunately, Talenti gelato has made that memory come back to life. With every spoonful, there is no guessing where the flavor is. Talenti has crafted a frozen dessert with an uncompromisingly strong coffee flavor that punches the tastebuds every time.\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by Kath12 from Delicious! My favorite ice cream flavor since I was young was Mocha. That flavor has disappeared. One night my daughter brought over brownies with a complimentary Talenti flavor. I fell in love with this gelato. Next time I went shopping I decided to buy the coffee with the chocolate chips. The first spoonful brought back the flavor I had longer for. It is now my nightly treat. All I need is 2-3 tablespoons full and I am totally satisfied until the next night. Sometimes I will mix it with one of your vanilla flavors & it is so yummy! No longer am I searching for this delicious flavor. I am totally hooked on Talenti brand gelato. I have enjoyed every flavor so far & I still have many more to try.\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by Baddie13 from Great Ice Cream This ice cream is delicious and is a great blend. I can taste the coffee and chocolate chips great together.\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by Mina from My life is now complete I was having a miserable day and I saw this in the store. Not much of a coffee person unless it\'s loaded with chocolate. Tried this as one of those what-the-hey-I\'ll-give-it-a-try moments and that first taste? [Insert angels singing here] DE-LOVIN-LICIOUS!!! The perfect amount of coffee taste, a ton of chocolate chips so no spoonful is left wanting, and my day got infinitely better after I downed half the jar in five minutes. Perfection in a jar. My only problem is trying to make it last before I can buy more! Yum yum yummy yummy yum! :D\n\nRated 5 out of 5 by best one so far from Best one so far Previous flavors I tried were super hard to open because they spilled gelato on the edge, making it extremely difficult to open. These were finally clean so it was easy to open. That was the first major PLUS in my book. Then I tried the gelato and was so impressed. It\'s the best coffee flavor I\'ve ever tasted. It\'s bolder than any other coffee flavored brands I\'ve tried so far. Normally I don\'t like "stuff" in my ice cream/gelato, but the "chips" in this one is more like shavings so it\'s not as noticeable (unlike their Double Dark Chocolate gelato which has chucks of chips). Best flavor so far from Talenti.'