b'Future vehicles will be computers on wheels and will welcome digital transformation\n\nThe race to lead autonomous vehicle development has begun. New digital technologies are driving demand for smart connected products like self-driving cars. Forecasts predict many trillions of dollars of economic activity from new and existing automakers, shared mobility services, and an increasingly varied auto supply chain over the next few decades. You can expect an unprecedented increase in vehicle development complexity in an already challenging market with fierce global competition from technology companies. New vehicle development approaches are required to take a leading position in developing ADAS and autonomous vehicles of the future. To deliver these complex autonomous transport solutions in a safe, reliable way and at the right cost demands radical changes to the way the vehicles are designed, manufactured, and sold. A digital transformation is needed, and Siemens can provide you with the powerful Autonomous Vehicle Development tools you need to succeed.\n\nIntelligent Autonomous Vehicle Development\n\nAt the heart of self-driving vehicles resides powerful embedded software, chips, and electronics. These vehicles will rely heavily on artificial intelligence, and as a result, they will require extensive testing, verification, and validation.\n\nBeing highly complex machines, AVs will involve cross-domain engineering from integrated circuit design to city infrastructure and vehicle deployment. To tackle this complexity and facilitate validation, an integrated solution of simulation, testing, virtual validation, and engineering is required.\n\nAutonomous Vehicle Development powered by the Digital Twin\n\nSiloed approaches for managing individual systems won\xe2\x80\x99t suffice when tackling the increased complexity of Autonomous Vehicle Development. Instead, developers must integrate all processes within a comprehensive digital solution. Siemens\xe2\x80\x99 solutions for Autonomous Vehicle development enable an agile, model-based development with integrated data flows and software-based simulation capabilities. Learn more today.'